I implemented my project using Python, Flask/Jinja, SQL, HTML, CSS, and Javascript.

I first started off the project with app.py and used a good portion of what I had already done in the Finance PSet in regards to registering, logging in, and checking whether or not the fields satisfied certain conditions with Python and Flask. On this same note, auras.db also contains a table called 'users' that is similar to the one I used in the Finance PSet. One difference is that the table also contains a column for a user's first name on top of their username and hashed password. I also used helpers.py from the PSet to help implement my apology page for the login/register forms.

After implementing the login/register forms, I got distracted and began to work on the aesthetics/design of my website. The first thing I started to work on was the black/white polka dot blurred background that moves with the movement of the mouse. I enjoy design a lot, but I think I should've not spent so much time trying to design the website before making a functional website. Implementing this moving background with Javascript wasn't too difficult in itself, but it created a lot of bugs which made it very hard to progress on any other aspect of my website, since the background image was supposed to work together with all the features I was going to later implement. I found that the blurred dynamic background was covering my login and register forms as well as any/all text on the page. I spent several hours each day trying to work with z-indexes and background attributes in CSS, but I just couldn't figure out what was wrong. I went to office hours to get help, and after a while, we found out that the image was in the background, but for some reason it was pushing the text/forms out of bounds. The TAs were also a little confused why this was happening, but to fix this, I just used transform and translate attributes in a CSS class and applied this class to all the elements of the website so it'd be visible.

With the main background done, I moved on to create aurabackground.html and auras.html. I knew I would encounter similar problems with aurabackground.html as I did with the first background template, so it didn't take that much time to complete. However, completing auras.html took a long time. When you first click on "auras", the website will say hi to you, and then ask how you're feeling with text that fades in and out. I considered taking out the text that fades in and out, but I had my friend test my website and she said she felt more at peace with having to take it slow and wait, so I kept it. Initially, I also had the website say hi, {{ people.username }}, but I decided I should add a first name column when users register, because saying hi Brandon is a lot more personal and aesthetically pleasing than hi bxngyn, for example. Then, four buttons show up: "happy", "sad", "nostalgic", and "just ok." When you hover to each of the buttons, I made it so that the background image matches with that button. For example, when you hover over the "happy" button, the orange becomes a lot more apparent, and when you hover over the "nostalgic" button, the green becomes a lot more apparent, which I think is cute because the colors match the emotions.

When each button is clicked, the corresponding function in app.py is ran. The functions use SQL to select the song title and song artist from the database, and then stores this into a variable. Regarding the SQL, I also made new variables for each database to make the code look a little cleaner instead of having to write SQL("sqlite:///nostalgicsongs.db").execute to go into that specific database. The four variables I made were db, db_nostalgic, db_sad, db_happy, and db_ok. When clicked, all buttons lead to "result.html", and this is because I didn't want to make a separate HTML template for each button since I think it'd be redundant. Instead, I used if else statements to say that if one the variables isn't null, then the website should just display that variable on the page as well as the corresponding YouTube search query. Implementing this actually took a long time for me because, in the beginning, I tried to use the Spotify API, but I realized that it was difficult to do since the user would need to login to their own developer account and input an authorization key to be able to use the website. Considering this was being displayed at a fair with people walking by, I didn't think this would be the best design, even though I initially wanted my website to draw from the entire Spotify database, not just smaller playlists I made or got online. I spent a few days trying to work with Spotify's API, and I did make a separate function that adds a random song into a user's personal Spotify playlist, but I couldn't figure out how to pick from a certain genre of songs based on user input with the API, so I ended up scrapping the idea. Also, with the YouTube search button, I initally wanted to have an automatic YouTube search window embedded within the website itself without having to click a button to open a new tab, but I couldn't figure out how to do this with the time I had left.

The history page was the last thing I implemented for my project. For some reason, the formatting of the history table was really odd, so I kept searching on Stack Overflow and kept adding CSS attributes to try and fix the table. I think it looks better than it did in the beginning, but I will agree that the design isn't the best code-wise, since there's a large line of CSS attributes within the code itself. Ideally, I would've wanted to organized it into the styles.css stylesheet. The styles.css stylesheet also has some redunancy in it, and I would've reduced the redunancy by combining classes like faderegister and fadelogin if I had more time. The inline CSS code is a pretty consistent design issue I have throughout my code files. I also had issues with inserting info into the history table at first with SQL, because I didn't realize that the SQL queries were outputting a dictionary like [{'title': '...', 'artist': '...'}]. I was inserting this dictionary into the variable, so it kept telling me that the code couldn't insert it into the table. I realized that I needed to query into the dictionary with [0]['title'] or [0]['artist'] to get the content itself.

Lastly, I had hoped to put in ambient background music upon arriving at the website, but I couldn't figure this out either. I spent a good amount of time on Stack Overflow trying different code variations, but I realized Chrome apparently doesn't support background music that plays upon arriving to a local website like mine. Overall though, I'm proud of myself since I completed the GOOD, BETTER, and almost all of the BEST goals I set for myself, and I think the website is pretty cool design wise.
